In this video we're going to define our deep bounds helper function the right above the timeout I.D.
I'm going to make a new function called DB outs like we just discussed.
This thing is going to take an argument of a function.
I'm going to refer to that as an argument called func short for function.
You could just as easily call it CB for a callback or just callback itself.
But I'm going to call it func than inside up here.
We're going to return a function like so so this function right here.
That is the wrapper as the thing that is going to implement a little shield and guard how often func
can actually be invoked.
So what you have right here this is kind of the hardest part to understand.
All we have to do now to finish up the implementation of dy bounce is essentially take all the same
code we have down here and stick it into the balance.
So let's go through that step by step.
The first thing we're going to do just above the return statement is define let time out.
D then inside of our function.
So this is the function that we are going to be calling possibly many times in a row.
We're going to first check to see if timeout I.D. is defined and if it is we're gonna clear that time
out we're gonna say sorry.
Previous execution turns out you're not going to be actually running.
So we're gonna stop that thing in its tracks.
Then immediately after that we're going to cue up a new execution of our underlying function which we
can do by calling set time out passing at the function to run.
Inside there we will call func like so.
And then as the second argument to set time out we'll put in the delay that we want to have.
Now we're going to make sure that when we call set timeout we take the timer that gets returned and
assign it back to timeout I.D.
And that's pretty much it.
There's just one last thing we have to take care of this function right here that we pass in might need
to receive some kind of arguments.
So we essentially need to make sure that if we ever pass any arguments to this green wrapping function
that we intend to get over to on input we essentially have to take the arguments that are being passed
to the green function and forward them on to on input to do so very simply like a real straightforward
way of doing it would be to say Okay I'm going to take in that first argument right there that I'll
call simply AIG short for argument going to take whatever that argument is I'm gonna pass it through
to that fund when it finally actually gets called.
So that's a very simple and straightforward way of doing that.
However this approach right here it will only work if we are passing in one single argument and that's
possibly not always the case.
So to make sure that this works in all cases we're going to use a little bit more fancier code.
We're going to say dot dot dot args plural.
So this is going to take all the different arguments that are passed to the function then down here
when we call func we're going to do func dot apply with null and args.
Remember what the apply function does.
It essentially says call the function as we normally would and take all the arguments or whatever is
is inside of that array right there and pass them in as separate arguments to the original function
so this right here like the code you see a right here is 100 percent equivalent to if we had instead
make a very quick change here like Arg 1 or 2 ARG 3 and then inside of here called func with ARG 1 or
2 args three hundred percent equivalent.
The only difference is that the applied way is going to automatically keep track of however many arguments
we need to actually pass through.
Only difference okay.
So I can go back to that point right there okay.
So that is the entire D bounce function.
So now we can use this anywhere inside of our code anytime that we need to introduce some rate limiting
essentially on how often a function can be invoked.
So in this case we want to limit how often on input gets invoked.
So let's take out all the time out code we have inside of you right now we're going to instead use our
D bounce function on it so I'll first begin by deleting timeout d I'm gonna delete the if statement
I'm gonna delete the timeout I did with set time out and the closing brackets on their then fix up the
indentation a little bit and now we're back to a very simple plain and easy to read on input function
now we can apply the deviants function right on this thing right here so we can say I want to pass in
that function like so we can imagine that this thing right here is going to be received into D bounce
as funk and we're going to rate limit it essentially on how often it can be invoked.
We're gonna wait until some amount of time has passed before we actually invoke it and then the important
thing to keep in mind here is that we are returning a new function so we can take whatever gets returned
from D balance and still continue to assign it to on input.
Now we just have a version of an input that can only actually be invoked once every second so we can
still continue to pass that directly on through to our event listener like we were doing before just
you know there's one other way that we could have applied a d bounce we could have defined on input
normally like we did before and instead apply D bounce would we pass it off to the event listener so
we could have used D bounce down here as well.
Hundred percent equivalent.
Same exact thing.
It's just a question of where we are actually applying the DB bounce logic we would want to apply it
in this way like when we actually use the function or pass it off somewhere else if we expected to call
on input multiple different times from multiple different places and we only wanted to D bounce it in
some scenarios okay.
Let's save this and go do a quick test I'll flip back over I'm going to search for Avengers I'll wait
for a second and then I see the response appear so looks like it's still working as expected.
Okay.
So one last little little improvement we could add inside of here at present we've got a hard coded
delay of one second and chances are we would want to allow other developers who might be using this
function to adjust that more easily.
So an easy way to do that would be to say that we're going to take in a second argument to our D bounce
function that second argument might be called something like delay and that will be the number of milliseconds
we want to wait.
So I can use that delay argument in place of 1000 right there.
Now whenever I make use of dy bounce I would just have to make sure that I pass in the number of milliseconds
to wait.
Like in this case maybe just half a second.
Like we had before though that would definitely work.
One last very small optimization as well.
We could say that maybe we just want to have like a default delay amount and to do so we can use a defaulted
argument right up here so we could say something like equals 1000.
So now that means that if we ever make use of D balance without passing in that second argument we're
going to get a default delay value of 1000 milliseconds but I'm going to go with five hundred because
I felt like that was pretty responsive when we tested out inside the browser.
Let's save that.
One last quick test here I'll search for Avengers and looks like we're good to go.
Okay so that's it.
That is the D balance function from scratch.
Now I want to save really quickly here.
If this is really confusing and chances are it is don't sweat it.
Honestly if you're going through this course right now and you're having a hard time with this function
I honestly really expect you to have a hard time with this.
I really really do expect this to be some challenging stuff.
The reason I'm showing it to you is that seeing hard code like this is how you get to be a better engineer.
If I just continue to show you a bunch of like baby easy code that's really easy to understand.
You're never going to be a better engineer.
You have to look at the harder stuff like this.
It is what is going to make you into a better engineer.
So if it is hard.
Good.
That is a good thing.
You want it to be hard.
If it's easy.
Hey congratulations.
You understand what's going on.
So either way don't feel bad if this is some hard stuff to understand.
I really really do expect it to be challenging okay.
So it's all it's great.
We've got a great working D bounce function so let's take a pause right here and continue working on
our app in the next video.